18
AB CIRCUIT

Football Specific Ab Exercises: 3 circuits, 10 reps each

Straight Arm Plank with one foot on medicine ball, other foot in the air, knee to chest, in & out
Same thing other leg
Forearm Plank — opposite knee to elbow, alternating
Straight arm plank position bird dog — hold 8 lb med. ball in hand that’s in the air. (15 sec)
Same thing other side
Alternating Bicycle crunch and ankle touch — lay on back, bring medicine ball to right knee then kick out and straighten leg up in air bringing ball to ankle - Right side
Same thing on left side
Single leg kneeling front choppers — Kneel on right knee, left foot out in front with knee bent.  hold medicine ball overhead.  Push hips forward as you bring the ball slightly behind you.  Then chop the ball forward to left ankle, then immediately lift overhead again and bring ball back as you push your hips forward.
Same thing other side

Basketball Specific Ab Exercises: 3 Circuits, 10 reps each

Hold medicine ball overhead and bend side to side
Lay on side, medicine ball overhead, body in straight line.  Sit up, bringing ball between ankles which are now about 3 feet apart.  Lay back down on the other side bringing ball overhead again.
Alternating Crunches, knees bent, lay back with ball overhead and sit up bringing ball to right ankle, lay back, ball overhead, sit up bringing ball to left ankle, repeat.
Kneeling chops (knees together or better yet on BOSU) Bring ball overhead behind you, pushing hips forward
Lay on back, ball overhead and behind, bring straight legs into air and bring ball to meet legs, lay back again, now sit all the way up bringing ball between ankles, lay back, repeat.


Basketball Strength Drills

STRENGTH PASSING DRILL, SITUP POSITION:  Like Partner med ball toss drill, but use light ball or basketball, lay all the way back, catch and pass back two arms, right arm, left arm, repeat (chest pass, passing left, passing right = 1 rep; 10 reps = 1 set; beginning = 5 sets; intermediate = 10 sets; advanced = 15 sets)
STRENGTH PASSING DRILL, PUSHUP POSITION:  Pushup Position.  Hold one arm up in the air as your partner tosses ball to you and you pass it back with one hand. 5 tosses on one side then rotate to other hand.  (5 passes each side = 1 rep; 10 reps = 1 set; B=3, I=5, A=7 sets) Can use a medicine ball for this; or have partner take a step back with each toss
PUSHUP POSITION DRIBBLING (arm & wrist strength, hamstring & quads):  Dribble 10 times each position in each series  (Series:  top, across, wide, inside) When you do all four on each side = 1 rep; (B=3, I=5, A=7 reps)
WRIST & SQUAT DRILL (arm & wrist strength, hamstring & quads) :  Do pulsing squats while you flip a weight plate (weight depends on your strength) - 25 forward flips, 25 reverse flips (B=1, I=3, A=5 sets)
LEG EXTENSION DRILL: aka Russian Twist (For Core, hip & leg strength):  Lay flat on back, arms out at sides.  KEEP SHOULDERS ON FLOOR. Hinge at hips, Straight legs to the side, lift legs up and over to the other side, go back and forth. Do 25 side to side : up to three sets
LEG EXTENSION CIRCLES DRILLS:  (Can circle legs around partner legs)  Same position as above.  Legs straight out, low back on the floor, arms out at side.  Circle legs clockwise 5 times, counterclockwise 5 times; then 5 straight leg hip lifts = 1 rep. (B=3, I=5, A=10 sets)
PARTNER PUSHUP DRILL: (Chest, hands, core)  Pushup Position facing partner.  Do a pushup to the right side, pushup to the left side, pushup in the middle, then slap right hands, slap left hands, plank walk 2 steps (one partner will be going backward) (all the way across floor is 1 set) (B=2, I=4, A=6 sets)
BENCH DRILLS: (For speed, chest core) Do crunches, 2 dumbbells at chest when you are laying down, as you sit up explode weights up into chest press. (younger kids use 2 - 5 lb weights; older players use 20 - 25 lb weights) Do 7 quick reps.  B=10, I=15, A=20 sets)
BALL PUSHUP DRILLS
One Ball Pushups (Pushups with hands on ball)
Two Ball Pushups
Bouncing Chevy (Bounce ball forward then hop feet forward, repeat so you are moving forward)
Wrist drills (in pushup position, roll the ball forward one hand at a time). walk feet to match
SUICIDE ON BALL DRILL:  Do 5 on ball pushups; Five Bouncing Chevys and 5 Wrist Rolls (do this across the court, or half court
Plyo Planks (lock out arms, hold ball and hop it side to side - you’re not doing pushups)
Plyo Planks forward and back (lock out harms, hold ball tightly and bounce fwd & back
BOX BOUNCE: put these together and make a box as you hold tightly to the ball
THREE BOUNCE: Bounce side, middle, side


