47
FRYING PAN INTO THE FIRE

Lunge Walk 20 X each leg — low lunge/hand to floor, as you stand up kick back leg up behind you and step forward with that leg.  Repeat

Reverse Lunge Walk 20X each leg — Step back lunge, as you stand up kick front leg up and then step back with that leg.  Repeat.

Side Lunge Kick 20 X each leg — Lunge to right side, as you stand up left left leg out to side then cross over right leg.  Lunge to the right again.  Do 20 Reps then repeat all on left leg.

GET LOW BOX or STEP

30 Front and back steps each leg.  Stand on low box or step (about 1 foot or so off the floor)  Leave left leg on box the whole time.  Step right foot forward to the floor, then stand back up and over box putting right foot on the floor behind you.  Go back and forth 30 times.  Then Do the same thing with the left leg, keeping right foot on box.

30 box hops with hands on floor.  In elevated plank position (feet on box/bench/step, hands on floor) hop feet down to floor bending knees so you are in a “frog squat” position.  Hop both feet back up on bench.  Hop back and forth 30 times.

30 Side to Side steps each leg.  Stand on low box or step.  Leave left foot on box the entire time.  Step sideways to the floor with right foot, then stand up and over the box bringing right foot behind left and down on the floor to the left of the box.  Go back and forth 30 times each leg.

30 box hops with hands on floor. 

30 Split Squat Knee Raises each leg.  On a 6 inch step (can use a stair) place left foot on step.  Right foot behind you on the floor.  Weight in hands.  Squat low bringing weight in front of left ankle.  Then stand up on left leg raising right knee in the air and weight overhead.  Return to split squat position (right leg behind on floor, left leg on step)  Do 30 each leg.

30 Elevated Feet Pushups.

30 Each leg deep forward lunge onto step bringing one weight outside hip of front leg.

60 Hop sideways over low box, bench or step, then drop to the ground and do a pushup.  Then hop back over sideways and do another pushup.  60 total (30 each side)

30 box hops with hands on floor — but this time land feet on box sideways so your torso twists side to side.

