75
MAGNIFICENT MID-SECTION MADNESS

10 Flights of Stairs
10 Jump Burpee Pushups

15 Each Leg — Step Back Lunge With Side Bend (Hold 2 dumbbells overhead, step back with right leg bringing knee to the floor, bend sideways to the left, straighten back up and stand up.  Do 15 then switch legs and do 15 with the other leg)


15 Stability Ball (or medicine ball) Transfers (Lay on back.  Put Medicine Ball or Stability Ball between ankles/calves, lower legs to floor and arms to floor behind you.  Now lift arms and legs, transfer the ball to your hands and lower arms and legs to floor.  Repeat 15 times)
16 Mixed Grip Inverted Rows with Feet on Stability Ball (one overhand grip, one underhand grip — do 8 then switch your grip)

15 Alternating Bench Press with Raised Knees (Lay on bench; lift feet and knees and hold at 90 degrees.  Now to alternating arm bench press 15 each side)


15 Offset Dumbbell Step Up with Alt OH Press (Hold weight in right hand at shoulder.  Step up on box or bench with left leg, raise right knee in air and right hand overhead; Step right foot back down to floor.  Do 15 Each leg)


15 Each Leg - Forearm Plank with Leg glide through (in forearm plank position, move right leg straight out to side, then glide it under your body and move it across your body straight out to the left side.  Do 15 with your right leg, then 15 with your left.)




15 Each Side — Single Leg Romanian Dead Lift with Row (Hold weight in right hand, bend forward toward left ankle lifting right leg behind you and keeping back straight.  At the bottom do a row then stand up.  Do 15 then do 15 on the other side)







15 Each Side Weighted Half Wipers (Place medicine ball or stability ball between ankles, weight in right hand.  Lower legs sideways toward floor as you lower right hand toward floor on right side, lift both back up to center.  Do 15 then put weight in left hand and do 15 on the other side)


10 Flights of stairs
10 Jump Burpee Mountain Climber Pushups

Repeat the 8 Exercises above

10 Flights of stairs
10 Jump Burpee Mountain Climber Squat Back on Heels Pushups


